Welcome to the eLearning session
Getting Started with Ensemble,
Data Transformations.
When sending data from
one system to another,
it is common to have to map
data from one record or message
structure to another that
is slightly different.
For example, an employee
record or object in one system
will have the same
basic information
as in another system,
but the fields
may be in a different order,
called different things,
and the content of some of the
fields may need to be changed.
Another example would be sending
an HL7 message, a protocol
which is widely
used in health care,
from one application to another.
In this situation,
it is almost always
necessary to modify
the message slightly
to meet the requirements of
the receiving application.
In Ensemble, you can
map from one data format
to another with a
Data Transformation.
Data Transformations
are simple in concept,
as they take the input
or source object,
and create an output
or target object.
In practice, they can be
as simple or as complex
as a task requires.
In an Ensemble production,
Data Transformations
are typically used as a
Business Process activity.
Data transformations can be
written in Caché Object Script.
But they are nearly
always created
using the graphical
Data Transformation
Editor in the Ensemble
Management Portal or Studio.
As you can see
here, the target SKU
is just a different name
from the source SKUCode.
However, the target
Quantity is actually
a calculation subtracting
NumberOutstanding
from the NumberOrdered.
Let's start with
a simple example
where we will transform a simple
employee format, Employee1,
to a slightly different
format, Employee2.
In the Ensemble
Management Portal,
we will go to Build,
Data Transformations,
and we will select New.
We will keep our new
Data Transformation
in the eLearning package, but
we will call this EmployeeDTL.
Choosing our source
class, we will
select all non-system
classes, because we
are using a persistent object
found in the eLearning package
and it is Employee1.
The target object is
going to be Employee2.
As you can see, our
Source, Employee1,
is on the left-hand side,
and our Target, Employee2,
is on the right-hand side.
And you can see
that the structure
is slightly different,
but still contains
the same type of information.
The right-hand panel
contains several tabs.
The Action tab will
contain the action
that we're currently working on.
The Tools tab has a Test
button, where we can actually
test our Data Transformation.
And the Transform tab
has some initial settings
that we can use.
One of the settings
is the Create setting.
And you can see that
there are several options.
The Copy option for Create will
make a duplicate of the source
to become the target.
The two structures
must be identical.
That is not the case here,
so we will start with a brand
new object for our target.
The bottom panel
contains each action
as we set it transforming
Employee1 to Employee2.
These actions are
performed in the order
that you see them in
this bottom panel.
To add an action, I can
simply drag and drop.
Let's start with
the FirstName, which
is the GivenName in the target.
By dragging FirstName
to GivenName,
you can see that the action has
been added to the bottom panel.
I will do the same for
LastName and Department.
And you can see that they are
in the bottom panel in the order
in which I chose them.
I can change the order
by highlighting an action
and clicking on the
up or down arrow.
I can also delete an action
by clicking on the red X.
There is also an Actions
pull-down menu that give us
additional functionality.
For instance, if I choose
Department and add an "if"
action, my condition will be if
my source Department equals HQ,
I need to take an action.
And the action that
I will take will
be to set the Target Department
equal to the literal value
"Central".
Now in this
situation, we've only
accounted for the source
Department being HQ.
Other options would
have to be taken care
of in the "else" clause
or in another way.
Now that we've made
some actions, let's test
what we have done.
First we need to compile
our Data Transformation.
Once we've compiled, we go to
the Tools tab and choose Test.
For document formats
such as HL7, X12,
or XML virtual documents, I
can simply paste the document
into the Input Message box.
For a class structure,
like Employee1
I have to enter the XML
representation of the source.
This means I can only use the
Test utility where the classes
or any classes reference
extend %XML.Adaptor.
Here I have a simple
example that I've
pasted so we can see the
results by clicking Test.
And you will notice that
our First and Last Name
are unchanged.
However, Department
which is HQ in the source
is now Central in the target.
Behind the graphical
interface, the Transformation
is created as a class with all
the actions in an XML block.
We will take a
look at this later.
Let's take a look at
a few other things
we can do in Data
Transformations.
A set action can be modified
with certain functions.
If we choose LastName, we
can modify the set action
with a function.
As we take a look
at the Functions,
you can see that there are
a large number of Functions
that we can choose from.
Some are used in
conditional expressions,
and others are used to change
the actual target value.
In this case, we're
going to modify
the LastName to be all uppercase
by using a ToUpper function.
When we click OK,
you can see that we
have modified the set action.
Let's test this.
We will compile, go back
to our Tools, choose Test.
And as you can see, now the
LastName or the FamilyName
is now all uppercase.
One important
function is Lookup.
This allows you to map
values using a lookup table.
For example, if I had
many Department names that
were coded separately in the
source and target records,
I could use a lookup table
to convert HQ to Central
and so forth.
Repeating fields in
the source or target
are indicated by
parentheses, as we
can see here with the Projects
property of our source.
If you drag the
repeating source projects
to the single-value
target Projects,
it would keep overriding
the target value.
But I can modify
that value, adding
a separator between each value.
This is done with
a foreach action.
So I will highlight
Projects, choose foreach.
I will add a set
action to my foreach
by setting Target.Projects
will become a delimited string,
where each project in
our list in our source
will be separated
by a delimiter.
We will compile and then,
using our Tools tab,
test our transformation.
This example now has
multiple projects
so that when we click Test, we
can see that each project is
separated by a delimiter.
Let's take a look at the Data
Transformation in Studio.
So we go to Data
Transformations, eLearning,
and here is our EmployeeDTL
Data Transformation.
When we take a look at the
Data Transformation in Studio,
you can see that we have the
same graphical editor that we
were working with in the
Ensemble Management portal.
However, by clicking
on View Other Code,
we can see the
XML representation
of our Data Transformation.
And here you can see each
transformation in the order
that it will be executed.
You have been
watching the eLearning
session Getting Started with
Ensemble, Data Transformations.